# maclay-internetart-final2
Thsi project was originally created using netnet.

This project was intended to reflect Virginia Heffernan's concept of "magic and loss" by having concepts related to metaphysics drawn from various internet sources (book quotes from Goodreads, Wiipedia entries, online news articles, etc.) physically cover up an abstract depiction of 'the real world:' the meta literally overshadows the physics, digital information covers up 'real world' information. The quotes come mostly from pages I've bookmarked over the years having to do with 'Snow Crash,' 'Understanding Media,' Popper's Three Worlds, Liminality, a few articles from Current Affairs, 'Dune,' etc.

The 'real world' background image was created on GIMP (GNU Image Manipulation Program). I was inspired by a few websites I found on Neocities, where they present their homepage like a physical living room and have a .gif of a roaring fireplace to make you feel at home - super cute :) I created the image using free-drawn shapes and images of real textures, as I believe that the sleek nature of the web means that entering that metaphysical space means losing touch most essentially. Getting absorbed in these quotes and the sites that generated them is an experience of abstraction or liminality - you withdraw from the space that you actually occupy into a sort of "world of ideas" (Heffernan's "magic"), often losing your sense of time.

Something I'm not sure that comes across is a critique of my own pseudo-intellectualism (guilty...) through engaging with these sources through truncated bits and pieces - reducing entire books to a few lines of text. This was supposed to come across through starting and ending the quotes mid-sentence, but I'm afraid it reads more unironically pretentious than I intend.

Some things I tried but failed to do that present a potential for digital gardening: randomly retreiving these quotes from Wikipedia or other pages (though I might have to do so from a preselected array, as the random function wouldn't be able to select by theme), incorporating the source of the quote-based disruptions using something like an iframe (GitHub couldn't load my test iframe, so I knew this wouldn't work), making the background a .gif to contrast the unmoving text (tried this in GIMP, but it didn't work), etc.

The two main things I wanted to do but ran out of time was (1) randomly generating these boxes of quotes, rather than leaving them in a gallery, and (2) add a text-to-speech function that mixed the narration of these randomly generated boxes into stereo sound (the box position --> the sound perspective with L/R channels). I really wish I could have figured out the audio aspect, because getting overwhelmed by sound as well as image would make for a much cooler artwork, imo.
